in matters of the heart it's actually
often really useful to say to people hey
imagine the same scenario that you're in
imagine the same scenario you're
concerned about or freaking out about
imagine it if the genders were reversed
imagine if it were a gay couple instead
of a straight couple would you still
feel the same way about it and in terms
of the current controversy with James
Charles I think it's worth asking those
same questions in what sense
is this even controversial why is it
that anyone's freaking out and rushing
to judgment and then beyond that
judgment this kind of harsh condemnation
if James Charles is an idiot why don't
you people admit to yourselves that you
love him because he's an idiot
look what were you tuning in for his
opinion about history politics and
philosophy what because he was
hardworking and sober and smart I mean
come on you know it's a very strange
story to me the strangest element of it
is seeing people line up to pass moral
judgment on this 19 year old and when
you get to the edge into their their
judgment they just have they have
nothing to say there's no moral to the
story
there's no conclusion and I'm left
wondering what motivated any of this
aside from of course the hollow pursuit
of Fame
I remember in Thailand a woman
complained to me about the behavior of a
particular pair of heterosexual men
she'd been on one of those books tours
some some I forget if she was just on
and off of buses with a lot of other
tourists and she was complaining to me
about how these white heterosexual men
behaved in Thailand and Laos to get
attention from the local women and she
gave me shaving various examples
basically somewhat low dish behavior
nothing illegal nothing crossing any
kind of line one of the examples that
really upset her that really
you know pissed her off was just of a
guy at his friend sitting down on the
table and they didn't speak the local
language and just gesturing to two other
women who were eating lunch a different
table gesturing to these women to come
over and sit at the table with Emily at
Ian's lunch of them and you know she
acted this out from me and among the
things that I say to her was well this
kind of behavior you're complaining
about you only know how often it fails
what you don't know is how often it
succeeds like this guy who sat down in a
restaurant it is gestured for these
women to come over and sit with him how
many times do you think he's done that
and the women actually came over and
joined it like this kind of behavior
doesn't exist in a vacuum to some extent
it's encouraged the kind of behavior
we've seen from James Charles we've seen
him flirting with men and getting
rejected and suddenly the whole world
wants to judge and condemn him for that
do you think he was always getting
rejected do you think he wasn't
successful one time out of ten or one
time out of a hundred enough to be
encouraged maybe it was a lot more often
than one time out of a hundred and thus
from his perspective what you see as bad
behavior might not really be so bad I
believe two of the replies now from
heterosexual men who were flirted with
James Charles made some advance towards
two of them have come forward and
narrated their own perspective and they
said that at the time this happened they
weren't necessarily convinced themselves
that they were so heterosexual that they
thought they were to some extent
bisexual or bicurious and they indicated
this to James Charles well again imagine
if the genders were different
imagine if it's a man pursuing a woman
or a woman pursuing a man if somebody
gets that kind of signal I wouldn't even
call it a mixed signal gets this kind of
positive signal and then responds to it
a lot of people wear when it comes to
matters of the heart if you open the
door just a crack they're gonna stick
their foot in that door gonna say we'll
wait you open the door crack you're a
little bit interested and I know I'm
here letting you know that I'm uh I'm a
lot interested there was a situation at
a university where I was a student where
one of the professor's was a
heterosexual male was constantly
behaving in a manner that was
inappropriate and flirtatious with the
women around him I guess they were
always younger women I didn't know of
any examples where was a woman the same
age as himself rolling he was
heterosexual man with a wife and kids
and most of it was verbal but sure I
seen him put his arm around a female
student put his armor and this some of
it had to do with gestures and to some
extent touching but not not anything
that would be in a really obvious easy
sense over the line but he was pushing
the line all the time and so I remember
was discussing this with another
professor several professors in the room
at once this is a problem everybody knew
about it everybody'll but at several
times there have been complaints and
nobody knew what to do about this
professor who was at least pushing the
limits if not breaking the limits of
decency here and and the most
fundamental thing was he didn't perceive
himself as doing anything wrong
not even when it was pointed out to him
really bluntly and and really directly
was verbally told this is when he would
reply to that and and carry on he
refused to see himself as being in the
wrong in any way and if I was sitting
and talking about this with with some
other professors there was to two
professors in the room and one of the
professors asked me he was a gay man
actually ask me this he said do you
think that these flirtations and these
these inappropriate actions do you think
these things he's doing do you think
they have relieved to him actually
cheating on his wife do you think ever
the women or the few most since you
think they were ever
a brigade and my reply to that was you
know every time he does this he's he's
opening the door a crack and he may
think he's just joking he may think he's
just doing this for the attention for
the thrill for the mutual exposure but
sooner or later there will be a woman
who comes along where and she responds
to him opening the door a little bit by
just kicking down the door and coming in
and I said there there will be a woman
sooner or later if there hasn't been
more already who you know who responds
to this with enthusiasm and then of
course you know could destroy his whole
life it could end his career as a
professor or could end his marriage you
could have huge you know negative
consequences for him but yeah at that
time I I presumed it it hadn't happened
yet
a guy like James Charles you know so
many people are eager to treat these
problems just in terms of good and evil
and it's lacking categories like in good
taste versus in poor taste like can you
take this kit aside and talk about
having good taste think about the
meaning of the word tact being tactful
being skillful almost by definition if
it's a matter of tact skill poly TAS
good taste we're not really dealing with
you know the realm of good and evil and
the screenshots that have been put
forward to condemn this guy they consist
of him saying things like you're cute
and like that he's willing to meet up
with somebody but only because they're
cute this this is the basis for for a
witch-hunt
you know I think it would be the basis
for a friend of his to take him aside
and talk to him about how to have more
poly tests how to approach these things
in a more sensitive and an even-handed
manner but um
this is again shown me just the strange
sort of double-edged sword of Internet
fandom why were you people fans of James
Charles because he was a somewhat
salacious stupid flirty personality on
the Internet and then this seemed crowd
of admirers turn around and harshly
judge and condemn him for exactly that
behavior it was so to speak his whole
Act
you know this isn't the case that he's a
university professor who's expected to
be conforming to some higher level of
conduct he's an entertainer and exactly
this kind of behavior
he's practically the only entertainment
he has to offer you again all these
clips of Nevin were used of him joking
openly that his own tragic flaw is that
he flirts with and pursues heterosexual
men you know that he's unlucky in love
that he's unlucky in romance that he's
such a terrible flirt you know so on and
so forth and I can only assume that the
psychology of the audience is ultimately
one of self-hatred that they sink so
many hours into this stupidity and they
have a repressed sense of self-loathing
ultimately because their fandom forces
them to confront the fact that they are
the kind of person who finds this
entertaining or perhaps even erotic and
then it's maybe easier for them to act
out that strange feeling through the
condemnation of the very person they
used to idolize for this same behavior
they now suddenly judge to be a more